Next we want to make massive improvements in UIX, explainability and general actionability, accessibility, drill-down features and dynamic nature of generated insights, graphs and explanation; Context-aware, with the support of agentic explainability and data input guidance. Starting with Analyst view: Left "Transparency, Sensitivity Analysis, Execution Trace" panels are OK looking, but user should be able to drill down to give metrics better; Reliability %, benchmarked on what? Based on what data? Same with Quality metrics; Relevance, hallucination risk in contrast to what? What's the baseline? Clicking "View Data" only shows a few lines of analysis context and causal analysis data; The topic says "Data Schema and Sources" but shows domain classificaiton, effect size, absolutely nothing about sources. There are also three coloured balls indicating "Data lineage" but nothing visualized about them. Doesn't make sense either. Same applies to "Agents" tab; Shows 85% (seems to be about cynefin classification) on each step of Agent analysis chain; Context doesnt make sense. User should see how agentic functions and featres are activated, based on what data and in general, this visualization should also have a flowchart view. Think what would make sense intuitively for an analyst trying to understand what agentically happens under the hood, what metrics matter and how they could be actionable. Same with EU AI Act panel; Shows matches with articles (but doenst indicate low matches or other article pieces; Why these are relevnt? Active policies; Ok, but how they are defined? Just one line per insight like confidence_threshold etc. no contextualization on why they are relevant and whats their relation for example to configurations in guardian layer. UI says "Analysis audit trail preserved" while not providing to click and show anything, "available for review", but where and how? Same story with Sensitivty Analysis panel; "Interpretation: Effect of solar_investment on energy_cost_savings remains significant if unmeasured confounders increase treatment odds by up to 2.5x.
✓
Refutation tests: 2/2 passed" <-- Is solid summary, but very technical and does this really indicate to user what does this mean and why user would care? Refutation tests passed, but why user should care? This section is not actionable, visualization is tiny and too abstract (how to make visualization more accesibble and sensible, maybe expanded by clicking? The same story continues with execution trace;; Shows activation of each stage (I guess?) but doesnt really provide any insights. What does tag of "high" for example mean? Dull and doesn't make sense at all. I would consider redesign of this entire section, so that it would make contextual sense for use case and being more actinable. Next "analysis complete" section; "Causal Analysis complete" section is kinda fine but I would question presenting all generated results as text + explaining measurements better. Clicking "View Methodology" crashes the UI + "View Data" is unintuitive since it takes you to data onboarding rather than viewing underlying data. "Ask your followup question" doesnt do anything (I guess it should take user to chat to ask their custom question?). Also showing text results and header with ** marks look unprofessional, they look like markdown memo copies. Make presentation of text better (also these asterisk signs should be fixed from outputs of CARF intelligent chat; They look messy). Guardian and what if sections have similar problems; OFten when I run analysis the guardian section only shows empty prints on what, why and risk sections; EVEN if this would be justified, it should explain user why, whats missing in configuration and in general the entire. What-if simulator looks also static and just a draggable bar with static value? Is this REALLY the final design and functionality we have thought for what-if simulator? I thought user can easily choose paramters they want to affect in use case and get something more delicate / insightful, now the feature is very simple and not insightful. This is my open pondering cause it doesnt make sense for me. Evaluate also whether "what-if simulator" could consider changing some other parameters too, like disabling/enabling some components of architecture or simulating against some benchmarks relevant for technical performance OR in use case context (again, actionability. Also what-if simulator just shows one parameter to tweak; Wouldnt user want to choose which parameter to affect (ofc platform can give suggestion?). We cannot assume every user is causal ai analyst who understand what these metrics mean; There should ALWAYS be use case and decision making context, at least so that user can click to executive summary to review that).

Next causal DAG / Analysis section; While I understand the central role of causal of the platform, I think generated graphs should have drill down options and be more explainable; What generated metrics indicate? Couldn't see any results generated on bayesian analysis section, but same explainability, context specificty etc concerns on those ones. I would actually question the topics of many sections not to be about the methods of analysis used like "Cynefin router" or "Bayesian Panel" but rather the function they serve. Like "Complexity category", System Stability & Uncertainty" or something along those lines.

Next we discuss improvements in "Developer" view: So many of same views than for Analyst. The massive problem here is that its very similar with Analyst view; We have to think about it more like for someone, who actually, exactly and in detail wants to audit and query (even affect, where possible) what happens "under the hood" of the architecture; Therefore we need to consider granularity and context specificty of metrics like visualizating platform architecture, data flows, system / telemetric logs, drilling down to evaluations, causal/bayesian calcuations and how for example indexing and self-correction loops work in the platform. Developer cockpit view is definitely a good start, but too high level; Execution flow only shows json outputs of each stage, "View components" doesnt show anything, "suggest improvements" opens a box to write improvements but shouldnt this just to route the intelligent chat itself to include improvements. It should also tell user HOW to suggest improvements. Dataflow view has same problem; Too high level and there should also be a flow chart / semantic map sort of visualization not only boxes. "Execution timeline" shows 0ms in many steps, doesnt look its really working. State inspector just shows json outputs but is also a bit dull. Deepeval metrics has same problem as mentioned earlier on analyst side; no drill-downs, explanations based on what etc. The same questions should be asked across all view in Developer section; Do they provide transparency for the underlying architecture? I dont think granularity is enough and visualizations should be more robust for developer / architect context, so someone who would have to report how analysis systemically flows, how underlying data couldbe improved, are evaluations technically reliable etc. Based on identified cynefin category, it should recommend technical actions to improve analysis, what data to add / improve one (basically this entire epistemic awareness insights about how to improve the performance of the system should be more accessible; What data to add to improve performance, how user can use /questioning engine etc. chat features for better results and highlighting these sections in platform).

Finally, the executive view; The KPI dashboards are nice but like said many times, data visualizations methods should be contextual and adaptive in each view, making clear what purpose they serve. Executives also want to see bar graphs, visual maps, pie charts so different views on the insights and these should be flexible and intuitive to view. Lastly, the entire platform and its generated insights should serve ACTINOABILITY of executives, so in this view we only dont want executive summary, but concrete, clearly explained and actionable insights on suggested next steps on actions, strategies, data collection etc. as they would be relevant on given use case. This also look too similar in comparison to analyst / developer views

Also simulaton arena is not in central role enough especially for analyst view; Only clear way to access it now is to go to history and click compare between 2 earlier analysis results (isnt what-if simulator part of this too?); There should be a better walkthrough of simulation arena, suggesting user which parameters could be affected / simulated reliably per context and use case. We should also think of a sensible way to test human review feedback loop based on how its planned; Now it seems to be a dull feature. Lastly, walkthroughs have remained quite narrow after all these improvements; review them and make sure they cover more features, like running simulations separately etc.

In general, I still would like to see more proactive agentic UIX where user runs analysis etc and UI would highlight what to check, agentic answers in chat would give links for user to check on things etc. more handhelding and ofc making sure that agentic guidance features etc all /dash features are up-to-date with these updates

General bugs identified; Clicking some earlier analysis history results crash platform (Out of memory error)

